what's great about being out here is
that every whale sighting I'd get has
scientific value providing I can catch
it on camera
every humpback has unique marks that
allow it to be identified anywhere in
the ocean the most useful feature to
record is the tail fluke the fluke is as
unique as a human fingerprint each
pattern of black and white markings
differing from the next
but of course my aim isn't just to watch
them from the surface I want to
experience them in the water on their
own terms
swimming with a mother and calf is my
ultimate goal it's all about winning
their trust there's a cow on a cart just
off our bow but we're just waiting to
see what they do because there's a pro
head on either side of them so they
might feel a little bit trapped if we
return to the water here we really want
to make sure that they know that we're
here and that they're comfortable before
we get in no one has seen a humpback
give birth here but we assume they must
be doing so as this little calf is only
about four weeks old during the weeks
they spend here after the calf is born a
lot of energy is put into building up
the muscular strength of the animal so
there's lots and lots of these displays
of tail slaps and PEC slaps and breeches
by the baby
it's magical to be in the water with a
creature that just accepts my presence
and allows her calf to surface nearby a
baby whale can hold its breath for three
or four minutes whereas its mother will
routinely dive for 15
the youngster must learn how to do it
but I wonder how
it seems that the mother encourages her
youngster to breath-hold
under her her own body position
preventing the car from surfacing until
she allows it to but moments later the
pair are startled headed off that way
they were probably spooked by two adults
that suddenly appeared and have just
gone off that way so I have to see what
happens nice but it's really difficult
to turn out here cuz we're not the only
ones out here there's a lot of whales
out here